# ELEC 1010

### Signal

> Pattern or variation that carries information

#### Rules

- Signal may bring stimulation or enjoyment

- If the pattern is constant, then it does not carry information, thus is not a signal.

- Signal can be variation of physical quantity over time.
Signal can also be variation of physical quantity over space.
Signal can be variation of quantity over both time and space

  - Everything can be modeled as system with signal input and signal output

#### Definitions

- **Temporal signal**: A snapshot signal e.g. Camera accepts snapshot of light into spectrum which converts to electric signal accepted by the chip, which thus produces the image.

- Digital signal: signals defined only a discrete time distances and can take on finite set of values

- Sinusoidal signal: $A \sin(2 \pi f t)$

- Fundemental frequency: HCF of the frequencies of the waves

##### Examples

- A signal is composed of its 2nd, 4th, 7th harmonics, the 2nd harmonic is 2Hz. THe 2nd harmonic, 4th harmonic and 7th harmonic have amplitude of 10, 14, 7 respectively.

  1. Express the signal in time domain as sum of sine function. 10sin(2$\pi$2t) + 14sin(2$\pi$4t) + 7sin(2$\pi$7t)

  2. find the fundemental frequency and corresponding preiod of the signal. 1Hz, 1s

#### Sound

> Frequency is the repetitive pattern in sound bite that results in a pitch

Our ears distinguish sounds by 3 attributes: pitch (frequency), loudness (amplitude), timbre (harmonics / shape)

###### Definitions

- 2nd harmonic: twice the frequency of sinusoidal signal

- 'over a time interval of concern': Since even if play one specific note only, it changes over time, so we observe how the harmonics change with time for a specific note i.e. **spectrogram**. We then average it to get a continuous distribution from it.

###### Tools

- Spectrum graph: show, over a time interval of concern, the amplitude or amount of energy in different frequencies

- 2 ways to represent signal: `v(t)` i.e. time-domain or `v(f)` i.e. frequency-domain

  - time-domain: amplitude change of signal over time

  - frequency-domain: draw the maginitude of sine-wave over different frequencies at specific time. Use since we can sense a sine-wave. 32

- FIlters: high-pass (**only allow** higher frequencies), low-pass, band-pass

- Applying a filter with amplitude not 1 can multiply the amplitude of original signal in the graph

#### EM wave

#### Cellular systems (1G)

> Uses  < 1GHz

Multiple users talk to same base station using FDMA (frequency division multiple access). Original sound signal is moved to high frequency by multplying anothe signal i.e. mixing,. It contains both the sum and differences

When waves are mixed, it results in 2 new sine waves, one at frequency (f_1 + f_2) and hte other at (f_1 - f_2).

##### Why modulation:

- low frequency em waves do not propagate

- size of antenna needed to radiate EM wave is proportional to wavelength

- many signals are sent, need to distinguish them and do not conflict

##### Amplitude modulation (AM)

low-frequency signal is also referred as "baseband signal".

After modulation, the two waves are around the original carrier signal, and are symmetric

In AM (amplitude modulation) e.g. radio station, we simply multiply the baseband with the carrier wave. FM has higher quality since the bandwidth is wider

To demodulate a signal from radio statio: use **coherent**.

For older radio, they use 'envelopes' to demodulate signals, i.e. observes the general shape

#### Bell's phone

Since I = V / R, we modulate the resistance, so I = V / R(t) = I(t)

##### Problems:

- attenuation: reduction in amplitude of signal

- distortion: signal changed in non-linear way, due to the transmission medium

- noise: random garbage signal due to environment

Solutions:

- BInary digital system: boolean algebra. Receiver take average value of signal over 1 bit time. Then take it as threshold for 0 or 1

#### Analog to Digital conversion

##### Digitization

Two operations of digitization:

- sampling: converting analog signal to sequence of numers by measuring signal at discrete time or space instances. i.e. x(t) $\rightarrow$ x[n]

- quantization: putting the samples into binary format i.e. make the values discrete x[n] $\rightarrow$ $x_d$[n]

e.g. x(1.0.01231231) = 4.152V -> x[2] = 4.152V -> $x_d$[2] = $16_{10}$ = $00100_{2}$

> Remember that stereo sound e.g. CD, MP3  has two microphones so double the sampling size

Cannot just set sample rate to how frequent a signal changes, since a singla may change rapidly between samples

Nyquist theorem: If samping rate is 2 x highest frequency of signal, then wont have any errors.

The sampling frequency needs to be slightly bigger than 2x highest frequency tho since otherwise if two frequencies overlap the filter will not get the right shape

Number of samples in 1 period if using sampling rate from nyquist = sampling rate * period of fundemental frequency

##### Quantization:

 partition a range of signal into equal partitions, and then represent each partition as a digital word. Then the analog signal is matched against the partitions. Notice there will be error i.e. quantization error / noise

Quantization noice is exponentially inversely proportional to signal resolution

*Mid-term: Ch1-3, tutorial 1-7se*

#### Information theory

Information: has to be unknown before you receive it. Measuring it is like measuring amount of unknowness

Least number of bits needed for storing information given probabilities of each value = $\sum$probability of that value * $log_2\frac{1}{probability of that value}$
$\rightarrow$ Information capacity = bandwidth * $\log_2 (1+SNR)$

SNR is power of signal over power of noise

SNR$_{dB}$ = 10 log(SNR)

e.g. Sending 4 kinds of symbols in a channel. Min avg bits per symbol aka. entropy is 2 bits. Min number of bits needed to recorded whole sequence is 2 * length of sequence

#### Coding for digital communications

first we have a data source that emits symbols with certain entropy. Then in the channel it is first converted to binray code and then sent to receiver. For receiver it does the sampling and quantization, and then if migh do source codeing (compression), and then put it in a storage. When need the information, It will decode and reconstruct the signal.

#### Variable-length code

Instead of fixed bit length for each codeword, each code can have different bit length.

##### Prefix code

It is like a tree where all codewords must be at the leaves i.e. no codeword is parent of another. Used to assign bits to codewords in Variable-length code

#### Huffman

For N symbols problem, combine the 2 most infrequent symbols then have N -1 symbols problem

Is lossless and uniquely decodable

However even 1 bit of error is distrastrous. therefore have to limit propagation of error

works by repeatedly combing int he two least likely sub-trees

##### Entropy

just like signals, we cannot have avg number of bits lower than the entropy

### Lossy compressions

#### MP3

perceptual noise shaping is built around how human hear, since there are sounds we cant hear, certain sounds that we are more sensitive to, and we only hear the louder sound of two adjacent frequencies

First the time-domain signal goes through some band-pass filters, then transform to frequency-domain signal with MDCT

#### MPEG-2

first popular MPEG standard. encodes audio and video. key techniques icludes inter-frame predction and coding in frequency domain. 

Predictive coding: since coder and decoder uses algorithm to predict the intermediate frames, DCT takes advantage of that, and throw most useless data out

##### MPEG-4

currently used, adds techniques on top of MPEG-2 such as motion estimation

### Error detection codes

channel coding: puts a encoder right before the channel to put some error detection bits and a decoder right after the channel

Detect error from channel coding: check the code with a set of allowable encoded sequences i.e. codewords

Block coding: encode a block of bits at a time

### Error correction

1. Repetition code: send same data mutiple times
2. 2-dimension parity code
3. Structured error correcting codes: add structure to the code to make decoding more efficient. e.g. Convolutional code

## Communication

#### Wires

- telephone uses unshielded twisted pair
- TV uses co-axial cable
- Internet uses fibre

Fibre: single-mode uses laser. multi-mode uses LED (cheaper slower)

#### Wireless

using different wavelengths for different generations are because of antenna where the signal speed should be proportional to wavelength.

If wavelength is too high, it will become very directional and hard to reach receiver.

XGs: 1G is analog uses FDMA only. 2G is digital (900MHz, 1.8GHz, 2.4GHz~2.6GHz) uses TDMA and FDMA, can use encryption since digital. 2.5G provides web access. 3G uses CDMA (code division) fore more capacity and quality. 3.5G uses HSPA for even faster. 4G uses OFDMA. 

#### Cellular network

Increasing transmission power will increase range of each cell, but does not increase number of channesl, so useless

##### CDMA

is a spread spectrum technology. multiplies a slow data rate info stream by a much higher data rate code. The spectrum has different variants.

Direct sequence spread spectrum is realized by multiplying the data bit stream by a pseudo random noise code. The receiver need to know wthe PN code to get the data from seeminly random noise

The PN code has a fixed pattern, and is multiple of data stream. An xor is done and get the chip stream transmitted

User are not restricted to a short bandwidth

Neighbour cells must not use same PN code tho

### Internet

LAN: access network

WAN: backbone network

Protocol: defines format, order of messages sent and received among network entities and actions taken on message transmission, receipt

##### Network core

network core is the mesh of routes that interconnects the Internet's end systems

Two fundemental approaches to building network core: circuit switching and packet switching

###### Packet switching

resources are not reserved but on demand

header states the info of the package e.g. destination, size

Most packet switches use store-and-forward. means switch receives the whole thing before retransmittting it

Sequencing of packets do not have fixed pattern. aka. statistical multiplexing

#### p2p services

#####  bittorrent

focused on efficient downloading instead of searching. disctibutes the same file to all peers, so clients download the file from each other

chop the file to blocks, and select the rarest blocks at the beginning to download.

##### bitcoin

