---
title: Isom2030
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ isom2030 ]
date: 2017-03-10
filename: 2017-03-10-Isom2030
---

# Isom2030

Failed patents

- Amazon's one click patent: too close to an idea
- Morse code: too broad

Cannot patent idea/concept, can patent expression/method

Courts dun like patenting software that only has source code

Parker v.s. Flook: math formula cannot patented since 'law of nature', but way to use it may be able to

Bernhart case: it bundled software with hardware, since hardware is different from without that software it won, but ppl said its literally patenting the software

Diamond v.s. Diehr: process of curing synthetic rubber with steps of using mathematical forumua. Although formula itself cannot be patented, the application/steps is patentable

Iwahashi: pattern recognition using ROM. the mean seems more than just software, but the hardware is just a fast lookup, similar to regular database, so althought it is ruled to be patented, it is critized

Up to 1994 where software patents still not there, still a lot of patents made, with software being the most valuable component and still get patent

re Alappat is the beginning of software patent, since although its just source code, it contains application of math formulas

State Street bank & Trust v.s. Signature: was dismissed by tial court, but appeals court reversed since is means(software) PLUS function(what software does)

Lockwood v.s. Americal Airlines: the devise does not need to be disclosed to public to be prior art, usage of the secret is already enough

Can-copyright items: music, movies, books, software, CD

Cant-copyright: idea/concept, manufactured goods, useful things, names, data

Protectioin is auto and zero-cost in US

Copyright does not cover useful application of idea

Exceptions to copyrights

- fair use 
- use for promotion

License agreements & related contract law rights:

- many things can be included in license agreement, including many restrictions
- cannot be same as sales, so some fair use exceptions or first sale doctrine rights need not apply e.g. right to modify code
- some terms might be excluded
- contracts should not include terms that are illegal, impossible, against public policy, unconscionable
- unless reformed, license contract sets the terms



Fair use is an argument rather than right.



Assignment:

3. get everything out of US

how to not get caught: lower probability of getten found, make ur self not valuable target



Copyright law protects expression, innovation in software and creative works

Trademark laws protect brands, identity

Trade secrets protect innovatioins, but must rly be a secret

Patents protect product and process. only product(functioin i.e. what it is doing) & process. But cannot keep innovation a secret, since a patent is published. Expression cannot be protected. Patent covers the whole process incuding production, distributing, usage, ownership.

Patent is very strong monopoly, no fair use, no ground to fight. copyright has a lot of exceptions and nearly always can argue.

Patent have lengthy, expensive and approval process (3 years, duration is 20 years). copyright is easy.

Patent is only protected in legal systems where you apply it, copyright is nearly international (except china...).

Patent does not need a copy to be sued, but also using process or making. Copyright has to have the copy to be sued

Patent must be disclosed in such detail that after the period it should be immediately be copied.

requirements to get patent:
- novelity: resticted if innovation has previously anticipated, or publicly disclosed, and not applied in time (12 months)
- utility: requires innovation be useful art (must identify real utility), instead of just novelty or curiosity
- non-obviousness: most difficult criteria

US patent does not require commercial usage, unlike other countries.

Patent is for encouraging innovation

Discovery cannot be patented.
Math formula cannot be patented but making a novel/structure or doing function with aid of math forumla may be