---
title: Sosc2780
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ sosc2780 ]
date: 2017-03-15
filename: 2017-03-15-Sosc2780
---

# Sosc2780

Before globalization, statism characteristics:

- Territorial (geographical?)
- Bureaucratic (formal institution with rules)
- centralized & supreme
- comprehensive (controls everything?)
- exclusive (respect other states sovereignty)

It is because state is oftens seen as means to solve problems in captialism

During globalization, statism is challenged by supra-territoriality

- socio-economic interactions not limited by state boundary
- state lose control in stuff generally (electronic finance, taxation)
- debate (Peter Evans) about erosion/end of state

Jan Scholte claimed that statism didnt die, just transformed:

- turn towards global constituencies: before it aimed to protect national interests against external. Now hard is hard to distinguish, and have to serve global interest to promote national interest. Need to response to global indicators, values, agencies (e.g. University rank)
- pressure on state welfare: before it takes much care of citizens (e.g. education, health). but since great flow in&out of state, it reverts the welfare commitment, shifts burden to private sector & set limit on taxes (e.g. mainland mum to HK). Happens globally
- focus changed from 'government' to 'governance': no longer all on one formal institution (government)xx, but rather the process how the authoritative decisions are made and implemented. Is dynamic, cross-time&space, involve more decision makers

Polycentric governance:

1. global governance $\uparrow$: by supra-state organization (e.g. regional: APEC, global: WHO, WTO). deals with global problems (e.g. SARS, climate change, trade issues). possible problems of it: low legitimacy, poor coordination
2. state governance $\downarrow$: goes toward sub-state governance. district/local governements more active in global issues, can bypass central state and directly link with super-state agencies
3. trans-border governance: take place over nation borders, set up trans-border agencies to solve like crimes, disease control