---
title: Isom 2030
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ isom2030 ]
date: 2017-02-17
filename: 2017-02-17-Isom 2030
---

# Isom 2030

#### Software innovation protection

- Patent: protects function, and is costly + difficult to apply for
- Copyright: protects art + expression. More common, lower cost
- Trade secrets: e.g. Not show ur source code and distribute compiled + encrypted software

Copyright vs Patent

- Patents usually for userful products & innovations
- Copyright usually for useless parts e.g.  artistic expression that is not utility
- This makes software kinda exception, and need modifications to lawas and WTO cover software IP
- evolving area of intellectual property law

Music, movies, books, art, software, CDs, statues, restaurant menus, toy animals, cereal boxes are included to copyright. In US its auto protection and 0 cost

Manufactured goods, any idea or concept, most useful things (other than software), methods ofoperation, names, common phrases, facts, data are excluded from copyright

Copyright can be owned by party where the created is hired for. Often apply to software. E.g. Disney Birthday song. 

Author of copyright work can transfer the ownership through simple assignment of rights, esp. software

E.g. newspaper hired freelancer journalists and print on newspapers. Got sued by journalists when tried to put on Internet and CD and lost. Must specify that the 'assignment right should appy to known future media'

Copyright does not extend to useful application of an idea. E.g. Integrated circuit is regarded as art, but is connected to utility so not protected in court

Protection of the creation: 

- life of author + 70 years
- If made for hire, 95 years after first publication. If never published then 120 years after create

Trademark is forever

Idea & facts cant be copyrighted, expression can. Problem is how to distinguish, since often it goes beyond just literal expression but essence. Therefore need to prove that the original work influenced the violation

Civil sue: often is 'who do i believe more? is it more likely than not?'

Fair use: whether u did that for money or personal

question on a case: not whether is guilty or innocent, but rather wt is a nice defense. Not necessarily win,  delay can also be nice.  important to know the opponents' defense too. 

Fair use 4 pillars:

- nature of work
- proportion of copy
- economic harm to Nintendo
- Purpose of copy

Exclusive rights:

- reproduction


- Derivative work: modified the original work too much?
- distribution: can stop ppl from selling, giving away ur work (esp. if printed/manufactured outside to the country sued ppl distributed to, or if transmited publically)
- performance: charitable, non-profit
- display: if bought original then can, else cant
- digital transmission performance: esp. radio
- fair use: cant be predicted, esp. gd method if u are actually guilty 
- right of use for promotion: e.g. copy of a movie shot for cover of magazine, record store playing selections to promote the disk
- right to make copy of program to maintain or backup: otherwise violation reproduction right
- special statutory limitations on right: e.g. Google Library



##### Whelan case

- whelan cooperated witha client with right to market to others for 10% royalty, then client made another program with whole different env to compete with it
- but since the low-level is easy and high-level data structures and processes are hard. It is similar in high-level
- So carried out a 'Bifrucated test'(just means two-part test...)
  1. is there enough similarity to conclude that it is copying?
  2. is the usage evident or from what  'lay observer'(lay = non-professioinal) see that it is similar enough?
- Since if the input is same then output is literally same and was unique from original work, so since the expression/approach is same it is copying
- Some arguments against Whelan:
  - structure of program is idea of expression and is not work of art. court said that the purpose of the work is the work's idea and everything that is not necessasry to that purpose is part of the expression
  - Differnt software may serve same purpose without violation. court said that copyright protects expression not function

##### Lotus vs Borland case (Look-and-feel)

- Lotus was Spreadsheet software giant
- Borland copied the menu commands, claimed itself superior and huge innovation, and was compatible with lotus
- Ruled in favor of Lotus since menu(look-and-feel) is expression, and 'matter of first impression in this court'. Also in someways a software have to not be fully compatible in order not to be sued
- API? maybe protected
- but then the appeal court ruled in favour of Borland, since its a method of doing command
- supreme court voted 4:4 tie


##### Look and Feel v.s. Operation

- Look and feel is expression and protected
- Mode of operatioin is not protected by copyright but is the way of using the code,
- $\Rightarrow$ can copy way of using the code but not appearance

##### Implication of Lotus for APIs

- If fact favours u, use it.
- If theory favours u, use it
- Else just make loud arguments wt so ever, try to make the judge favour u

##### Altai test of copyright infringement

- 'non-literal' copying of 'literary works' = paraphrasing rather than word copying, but copy the essense
- Whether the overlaps due to same idea or just copy

##### 3-Step test in Altai case

1. Abstraction: identify each level of abstraction of code, see the overlaps per level
2. Filtration: Apply the overlaps from abstract to concrete, and filter protected elements
3. Comparison: were the protected stuff copied

Other implications:

- appearance: need to be different
- data structures: can be similar but variable names need to be different
- functional equivalency: if similar in function, need to style different
- non-literal copying: paraphrasing is illegal
- P.179

##### Game genie case

- is a gadget that blocks data from catrdge to Nintendo CPU
- temporary effects on system only
- Nintendo sued due to derivative work?
- Game genie argued that its fair use, since the hardware itself does not change software
- Nintendo argued that since user should guilty of making derivatibe work, Game genie enabled it
- Game genie won since user have right to modified program for better use experience

##### Stern Electronics v.s. Kaufman

- video make sue clone game maker, since code is different but appearance is similar

##### Data East USA vs Epxy

- Karate games. District court said is violation, Appeals court said no
- Why not violation: karate is a real life sport and not copyrighted. Sports and dance can be copyrighted, but its too old to be copyrighted. Also artistic expression not the same


##### MAI systems v.s. Peak Computer

- simply loading OS into RAM is copy, which violates copyright, and RAM is fixed medium so its like photocopy.
- $\to$ US passed copyright law change to allow some copies of programs

Copyright & legal software copies

- legal for software owner to make copy of software if:
  - it is essential for utilization of software with machine wihout no other ways
  - copy is for backup 
- If you sell the software, need to destroy copies

Mid manufacturing v.s. Artic

- it sped up video game produced
- changing hardware is fine, but if it changes UX on copyrighted software then is risky to be sued




## Assignment

Assigment hint: different between package version and individual is that package is often not licensed officially by studio

often theorotcally the law bans but in reality ppl do it publically and getting away with it.

DMCA is US addition to US copyright, not international copyright.