---
title: Isom2030
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ isom2030 ]
date: 2017-05-05
filename: 2017-05-05-Isom2030
---

# Isom2030

Contract is often more a way to clarify agreement, honor and relationship may be all that is needed.

Terms of use important for ecommerce, esp. that need to affirm customer did read terms and terms are clear.

When do we have a contract:

- it depends whether electronic acceptance is valid
- confirmation of receipt of order not acceptance

Voidable contract: you are locked in the contract but partner is not (e.g. contract with children, contract with program?)

Offer: advertisements often not offer and instead a invitation unless has quantification. website often is invitation also.

Offer is often revokable unless have been accepted. It is not if promise-based?

Unilateral offer is not revokable if the condition is proved already partially done, otherwise is revokable

Bilateral offer means offer that both sides make a promise, so is not revokable unless condition has choices

'I accept' means you accept the contract, in HK it has to be complete acceptance.

Once accepted the contract cannot be changed, unless both parties agree to

 If you ignore other party when it gives a contract by action, not rejecting means accept

confirmation of orders that states other terms means it is a counter offer in HK, so is not valid

If is goods shipped by producer and accepted, then more likely the contract is treated to be made

More things can be included in license agreements than sales, so fair use exceptions or first sales doctrine may not apply. 

A license may be reinterpreted by judge (e.g. too unfair)



Finals:

copyright: inclusions, exclusions, free, exceptions

if you are not supposed able to copy (encryption), then its not defended with fair use

patent is better to be narrow