---
title: Math2111
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ math2111 ]
date: 2017-05-08
filename: 2017-05-08-Math2111
---

# Math2111

To find a vector that is orthonormal along with other known vectors, need to put them like system of linear equations of the dot products. use the other vectors as column vectors and merge them into a matrix.

Find orthornormal basis for subspace formed by several vectors \frac{}e.g. {x, y, z}. First that means the basis is formed by multiplying constants to each vector and then summing them up. Then find each element of the basis:
$w_1$ = $\frac{x}{||x||}$ , $v_2 = y = (y\cdot w_1)\cdot w_1 \to w_2 = \frac{v_2}{||v_2||}$ , $v_2 = z - (z\cdot w_1)w_1 - (z\cdot w_2)w_2 \to \frac{v_3}{||v_3||}$

To find distance a vector $y$ to a subspace spanned by two vectors {$u_1, u_2$}:
find the dot product of the two vectors, see if is orthogonal basis
if yes, then do the proj$_wy$ = $y-\frac{y\cdot u_1}{u_1\cdot u_1} - \frac{y\cdot u_2}{u_2\cdot u_2}u_2$, the distance = $|| y - proj_wy ||$

If similar to the above question but is to find closest point (aka. best approximation), check if is the two vectors are orthormal basis,
if not, then find if is L.I.
then If yes, then use  Gramett. Process. then do the proj

If  a matrix U has orthonormal columns, then $U^T U$ = I

*Orthogonal decomposition theorem*

Find **least square solution** of Ax=b is same as finding **x** in $A^TAx = A^Tb$

Finding function of form f(t) =$c_0, c_1t + c_2t^2$ for data points (0,8), (1,15), (2, 14), (3,25) is same as solving 
f(0)=8, f(1)=15, f(2)=14,f(3)=25. make them into Ax=b, then find the Least square solution. x is the constants

Tip: if the elementary row operation matrix is on the left means it is row equivalent

*Linear regression*

