---
title: Isom2030
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ isom2030 ]
date: 2017-03-15
filename: 2017-03-15-Isom2030
---

# Isom2030

Patent need more than just an invention.
It focus on and describe benefits to society. $\to$ helps prevent basic scientific ideas from being patented, keeps science research free.

Patent can be on a process, not just machinery.
**Process** is 'mode of treatment of certain materials to produce a given result'

Challenges in defining process: 

- transformations of electronic bits?. **NO**, it is not a process
- biological process? (e.g. genetically modified crops)

Benson case $\to$ rejection by US of patents for algorithms



​plant patent: very specific ( mostly only asexually reproduced plants e.g. hk's flower :wink: ,  some sexually repoduced ones)

Diamond vs Chakrabarty: new form of bacteria created $\to$ creation of new life form can be patented

design patent: Apple vs samsung  (appearance e.g. shapes, sizes)

Funk case: cannot patent nature
Merk case: vitamin b12, developed in cow liver. is nature but got patentable. "composition & concentration never existed before"
$\to$ nature cannot be patented, but if transform it to $\uparrow$ concentration or different composition, then is patentable (e.g. plastic, stainless steel, integrated processor)

A doctor found brain tumor, took it out. Then shared it with friend who isolated the genetic cells to cure cancer. The brain tumor cannnot be since he didnt make it, but the genetic cells can be since its transformed, and **has** a useful purpose/ more useful than its nature.

should the cells taken from people be owned by himself or the research lab? often the paperworks u sign agree that u do not own it anymore

Patent can be overturned after successful application (e.g. Amazon dot one click, Microsoft 'elctronic commerce' since too broard, or against public policy)
$\to$ holding a patent does not mean you will definitely win in court. often its around whether the government should have issued that patent



Patent can be internationally reviewed, except for America



Noverlity: 
hard due to 2 requirements: first beinig new mean you beat someone. second thing is its new to public, so if u/someone discussed that stuff too much in public then its not new anymore and cannot be patented.