---
title: Comp2611
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ comp2611 ]
date: 2016-11-29
filename: 2016-11-29-Comp2611
---

# Comp2611

https://course.cse.ust.hk/comp2611/note/Comp2611_pipeline_Fall2016_part2.pdf

(P.3) the blues represent dependencies, red lines represent how they are forwarded. Since by the time the dependencies are needed the first instruction will have finished with the data, forwarding not needed for last 2 instructions in page.

(P.4) piggy-bagging includes not just the control signals, but also include the part of instruction e.g. data ID, execution result to forward.

E.g. EX/MEM.RegisterRd: treat it like data member to an object, stores the register number of Rd register in EX/MEM. 

(P.5) 

1a. e.g. 

```assembly
add $s2, $s0, $s1 # rd $s2
sub $s3, $s2, $s4 # rs $s2
```

1b. e.g. 

```assembly
add $s2, $s0, $s1 # rd $s2
sub $s3, $s4, $s2 # rt $s2
```

(P.6)

1. Pass Rs, Rt's , Rd to to forwarding unit
2. forwarding unit decides dependencies and grab data that need to be forwarded from result to multiplexers as another input source



Forwarding cannot go back in time (obviously), so can not pass to another instruction part that should have already been executed but depend on current instruction job (aka. ==load-n-use==)
e.g. 

```assembly
lw $s2 0($s0) # rt $s2
add $s1, $s2, $s2 # rt, rd $s2
```

Solution: ==Stall/Bubble==...

1. Hazard detection units detects for any hazard e.g. load-use hazard
2. Force controls in ID/EX register to 0, and prevent update of PC and IF/ID register, then decode the instructiont again (tl;dr delay by one cycle)

Problem with bubbling in Control Hazards: need to bubble for 3 clock cycles (a lot! ) if have conditional branch hazard since its in MEM stage
==Solutions to Control Hazard==:

1. Reduce branch delay via hardware: compare the conditions earlier in pipeline by adding hardware to do it in ID (P. 18)
2. Predict the branch decision(Static/ Dynamic), do instructions that u predict will be chosen

Branch prediction (Static):
Always guess that it won't  branch

Branch prediction (Dynamic):
Check if the branch was taken last time, fetch same new instruction according to last time
Use small branch prediction buffer to store history