posts/2016-10-17-Comp2012.md, before:

---
title: Comp2012
category: Study
tags: [ comp2012 ]
date: 2016-10-17
filename: 2016-10-17-Comp2012
---

## L2

- can define function in struct in C++, but not in C
- in C it is hard to maintain relatinships between structure data members
- OOP properties:
  - class
  - objects
  - inheritence
  - polymophism
  - dynamic binding
- Supports in OOP:
  - Data abstraction (abstract data type)
  - Data enscuplation (information hiding)

## L3 (skipped)

## L4

> 星期三, 14. 九月 2016 05:17下午

- inline functions are suitiable for short/simple statements, less readable
- if not put inline keyword, compilor will decide whether to make it inline
- if add inline to function, then it will become inline no matter what
- variable chooses the nearest declaration/initialiation value

## L6

- with g++ command, link other libraries using '-l' option
- a c++ library is of extension '.a', and has a prefix 'lib'
  e.g. `g++ -o myprog myprog.o -l ABC` finds a library called 'libABC.a'

### Static linking vs dynamic linking

- Static:
  - run faster
  - larger file size
- Dynamic:
  - run slower
  - less portable as the machine may not have the library
  - smaller file size

### #include `<>` vs #include ""

- \#: preprossor directive
- `<>`: standard header files
- "": user-defined header files searched in current directory. Can be changed with '-I' option

### 3 lines of codes in header file

```cpp
#IFNDEF HAHA_H
#DEFINE HAHA_H

#ENDIF
```

## L5

#### Passing objects

- Should nearly always pass objects as reference. If for getters then add 'const' in function parameter

#### Differences between Reference and Pointer

- Pointer can be pointed at nothing(NULL), reference cant
- Pointer can point to different objects at different times, reference cant. Instead assignments to it is applied to the value of its referenced object
- Nme of pointer refers to pointer object, so uses `*` and `->`. Name of reference always refers to the object

## Usage of const

- ojects not intend to change
- funcstion arguments not intend to change
- member functions that do not change data members (e.g. getters)

## ALERT! never assign values to data members in initialization

```cpp
clas abc {
	private:
	int good;
	// int bad = 1; // cuz it errors in old compiler
}
```

### If there is char string in parameter of constructor, then it won't call default constructor even if the object declaration does not have any parameters (four/constrctor.cpp)

`int a(10)` works and is same as `int a = 10`

## L6

```cpp
class Word{
public:
	explicit Word()
}
```

- 'explicit' is like preventDefault in js

### Copy constructor

```cpp
class A {
public:
	A(const A& a) {
		x = a.x;
		y = a.y;
	}
	A reflect() { return *this } // this also calls a copy constructor
}
```

#### When a copy constructor is triggered

- When u pass a object as parameter (normal copy)
- When u return an object by value in the function

#### Why use copy constructor

- Control level of copy/ what to copy

#### There is a default copy constructor too, which copies all data members one by one

##### Problem with default copy constructor

- Pointers copy the address so is kind of same, instead of copied to become independent(a.k.a shallow copying)

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int* arr; // Notice this pointr of array
public:
	A() { arr = new int[10];}
};

int main() {
	A obj1;
	A obj2(obj1);
}
```

#### Correct way to make pointer deep copied as well

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int* arr; // Notice this pointr of array
public:
	A() { arr = new int[10];}
	A(const A& a) {
		arr = new int[10];
		for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
			arr[i] = a.arr[i];
		}
	};
};
```

```cpp
Word hkust = "hkust" // implicit conversion constructor
```

## L7

#### Member initialization list

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int a, b, c;
	const int d;
	// member initialization list
	A(): a(1), b(2), c(3), d(4){ // this way directly assigns and initializes the values at the same time
	}
	// is the same as:
	A() {
		a = 1; b=2;c=3; // this way will initialize the members before assigning the values
		d = 4 // illegal
	}
}
```

## L8

#### when copy a char string to another char string, the length in new must be +1-ed:

```cpp
void receive_string(const char* s = "abc") {
  char* str = new char[strlen(s)+1]; strcpy(str, s);
}
```

##### When an object is already constructed, assigning another object to it does not trigger constructor

##### A object is killed before its data members. Reason: C++ stores the programs and variables as stack, and data members are constructed first i.e. FILO

#### If in constructor we assigned a data member a object:

```cpp
tree A;
World() {
  A = tree(1);
}
```

it gives two destructor. one for the data member itself, one for the tree(1), which is another unnamed but created object



## L9

### Generic programming

```cpp
template <typename T>
  T my_max(const T& a, const T& b) {
    return (a>b)?a:b;
  }
int main() { int c = my_max(10, 11); }
```

- ==*== If you pass parameters with different types at once though it will give error e.g. `double c = my_max(4,5.5)`

  - solution: (use a new typename for each parameter possibly with different type )

    ```cpp
    template <typename T1, typename T2>
      T my_max(const T1& a, const T2& b) {
        return (a>b)?a:b;
      }
    int main() { int c = my_max(10, 11); }
    ```

- Cannot set `typename` for return type

- It is useful for container classes e.g.

  ```cpp
  template <typename T>
    class A {
      private:
      T* arr;
      public:
      A () {arr = new T[100];}
    }
  int main() {
    A <int> something;
  }
  ```

### Operator overloading

- What you see: `c =a+b`
  Whtat c++ does: `int c = operator+(a,b)`,  or `int c = a.operator+(b)`
- handilling `<<` or `>>`: `ostream & operator<<(ostream& os, const A& x) {...} `, ` istream & operator<<(istream& os, const A& x) {...} `

## L10

##### Unlike normal functions, templates i.e. `template <typename T>`cannot be separated to header and cpp files.

## L11

#### Operator overloading

- Usually return by value unless you are returning a existing object or the operator changes the existing object

######the const of `int X::abc() const {}` means it cannot modify class members

### Stupid type checking in operator overloading scenerio

- Works :thumbsup:: `cout << b + 4.2 << endl;` given b is a custom class and have made the operator+ to handle
- Fails ​:thumbsdown:​: `cout << 8.9 + a << endl;` gives error no matter what you do...

##### Add `const` to return type in operator overloading if we do not want cascading assignments e.g. `a=b=c=d`, otherwise omit that.

## L12

#### Preventing left to right assignment in cascading assignment(six/)

```cpp
class A
{
public:
	const A& operator=(const A& a) {
		return *this;
	}
};

int main(int argc, char const *argv[])
{
	A x,y,z;
	x=y=z;
	// (x=y)=z; // errors as const in return type prevents that
	return 0;
}
```

#### Using 2 methods for same operator overloading (seven/)

```cpp
int operator[](int w) const{...} // read-only (required for const object)
int& operator[](int w) {...} // read-write
```

##### Post and Pre operators

```cpp
A& operator++(){}; //++a // cannot return new object
A operator++(int){}; //a++ //must have 'int' in parameter, can return new object
```

```cpp
int a = 5;
++a = 6; //Legit
//a++ = 6; //Illegal
```

#### Call another class/function a friend

```cpp
class A {
  private:
  	friend class B;
  	friend void x();
}
```

###### friend function is class is not a member function

- ### Generic Programming

  - Definition: programming with types as parameters

  - Careful with comparison operators for custom objects if only compare member data, since defaults compare and return the object itself

  - #### STL

    - Provides Containers to hold elements e.g. Linked List, stack, queue, tree.

      Provides Iterators(like pointers).

      Provides Algorithm e.g. sorting

    - Linked List

      - Array vs  linked list
        - LL is easier to merge and split 
        - LL is dynamic
        - LL' s access speed is low

    - ###### Containers

      - are class templates

      - 3 concepts of container

        1. kind of containeer (e.g. list-based, array-based)
        2. kind of objects (data type)
        3. kind of operations on the elements in container (mutations)

      - ###### Includes

        1. Sequence containers: linear structure, start from 0 like array
        2. Associative containers: non-sequential, key/value pairs
        3. Container adapters: uses other containers as storage, and provide different set of  member functions. E.g. Stack since it can be stored using vectors, linked lists
           - priority queue (i.e. heap)
        4. Near-containers: string, valarray

      - Deque (double ended queue):  dynamically expand/contract the storage without copying elements.

      - Containers in same category share same/similar public member functions

      - possible to remove/reduce reliance between the 3 concepts using generic programming

      - Container classes

        - holds collection of homogeneous objects
        - does not need to know the object type when designed

      - Sequence Containers: other operation

        - insert(p,x) , erase(p): p is iterator, x is the element
        - clear()
        - size(), empty(), resize(int new_size)
        - operators ==, !=, <

      - Vector

        - ```cpp
          #include <iostream>
          #include <vector>
          using namespace std;

          int main() {
            vector<int> vec;
            vec.push_back(4); // add element to back
            cout << vec.size() << endl;
            
            vector<int>*vec1 = vector<int>;
            
            //point to certain element of vector
            //not recommended but legit
            int* p = &(vec[0]);
            
            //instead of just pointer, should use iterator instead
            vector<int>::iterator it = vec.begin();
            it[0] = 200;  
            
            delete vec;
            return 0;
          }
          ```

        - Can deference a iterator

      - Class container

        - ```cpp
          template <typename T>
          class Array{
          public:
            Array(int n=3);
            T& operator+(int ) {}
          }

          // constsructor cannot just do A::A()
          template <typename T>
           A<T>::A<T>() {
           }

          // member functions
          template <typename T>
          T& Array<T>::operator+(int a ){
            //bla bla bla
          }

          //use another typename for << and >> since may stream different type 
          template <typename S>
            friend ostream& operator<<(ostream& os, const Array<S>& x);

          int main() {
            Array<int> a(3), b(3);
          }
          ```

        - Preferred to use extension "tpp" instead of "cpp"

        - Apply `template <typename T>` to all functions in class except for `<<` and `>>` as 99.9% of time you will use them as global functions

      - Sequnce container

        - iterator

          - definition: generalized pointer

          - To transverse sequence container, must use iterator

          - STL sequence containers provide `begin()`, `end()` for setting iterator

          - e.g. implementing find function

            ```cpp
            typedef int* Int_Iterator; //define a new name for type, used mainly because get rid of pointer asteroid ;)

            Int_Iterator find(Int_Iterator begin, Int_Iterator end, const T& value) {
              while (begin != end && *begin != value)
                ++begin;
              return begin;
            }
            ```

          - STL algorithm are global functions

        - Predicate

          - definition: boolean function

          - e.g. Implementing find_if function

            ```cpp
            template<class Iterator, class Predicate>
              Iterator find_if(Iterator first, Iterator, last, Predicate predicate) {
                while (first != last && !predicate(*first))
                  ++first;
              	return first;
              }
            ```

            ​

        - Function pointer: (taken from C)

          - e.g. `int (*compare) (const void* , const void* )`
          - also qsort function uses function pointer. It is a C function
            e..g `qsorst(data, num_data, sizeof(data[0]), i_compare)`, where `i_compare` is the pointer to comparison function
          - Cannot directly dereference a void pointer, so need to static cast it before dereferencing

        - Function object: (function pointer with OOP concept)

          - i.e. `A obj; obj()`
          - can be passed to other function as parameter and used as function

  - Nested class

    - ```cpp
      class A {
        public:
        class B {
          //...
        }
      }
      int main() {
        A::B b;
      }
      ```

    - ​

  - Namespace

    - Namespace can span multiple classes/functions
    - Namespace can nest each other.
    - Global namespace: e.g.  `using namespace std`,  available at global i.e. file level
    - use namespace specifically: e.g. `using std::vector;using std::cout`

  - Inheritence

    - cannot only choose specific members to inherit

    - Function that can pass base class can pass its derived class as well

    - Liskov Principle: Parent pointer can point to child object

    - If want to call parent contructor, call it in member initizliation list e.g. 

      ```cpp
      class B: public A {
        B (int p, int q): b(q), A(p) { //A(p) will be executed before b(q)
        	a = p;
        	b = q;
        }
      }
      ```

    - Have to make sure base class have copy constructor too if want to do copy construct with derived class

    - Slicing: not recommended to copy from derived class to base class, since derived class has more members, and the not covered ones in base class will be dropped.

    - the methods called are based on the pointer type, not the type of variable it is pointing to

    - When a derive class is not supposed to have a member from its base class: missed :P

    - Public members in base clas are accessible to member functions of clas, any member functions of other classes and global functions

    - Protected members in base class are accessible in methods of derived class

    - private members in base class only accessible in member functions and friends of class

Commit message:

study notes up to then

posts/2016-10-17-Comp2012.md, after:

---
title: Comp2012
category: Study
tags: [ comp2012 ]
date: 2016-10-17
filename: 2016-10-17-Comp2012
---

## L2

- can define function in struct in C++, but not in C
- in C it is hard to maintain relatinships between structure data members
- OOP properties:
  - class
  - objects
  - inheritence
  - polymophism
  - dynamic binding
- Supports in OOP:
  - Data abstraction (abstract data type)
  - Data enscuplation (information hiding)

## L3 (skipped)

## L4

> 星期三, 14. 九月 2016 05:17下午

- inline functions are suitiable for short/simple statements, less readable
- if not put inline keyword, compilor will decide whether to make it inline
- if add inline to function, then it will become inline no matter what
- variable chooses the nearest declaration/initialiation value

## L6

- with g++ command, link other libraries using '-l' option
- a c++ library is of extension '.a', and has a prefix 'lib'
  e.g. `g++ -o myprog myprog.o -l ABC` finds a library called 'libABC.a'

### Static linking vs dynamic linking

- Static:
  - run faster
  - larger file size
- Dynamic:
  - run slower
  - less portable as the machine may not have the library
  - smaller file size

### #include `<>` vs #include ""

- \#: preprossor directive
- `<>`: standard header files
- "": user-defined header files searched in current directory. Can be changed with '-I' option

### 3 lines of codes in header file

```cpp
#IFNDEF HAHA_H
#DEFINE HAHA_H

#ENDIF
```

## L5

#### Passing objects

- Should nearly always pass objects as reference. If for getters then add 'const' in function parameter

#### Differences between Reference and Pointer

- Pointer can be pointed at nothing(NULL), reference cant
- Pointer can point to different objects at different times, reference cant. Instead assignments to it is applied to the value of its referenced object
- Nme of pointer refers to pointer object, so uses `*` and `->`. Name of reference always refers to the object

## Usage of const

- ojects not intend to change
- funcstion arguments not intend to change
- member functions that do not change data members (e.g. getters)

## ALERT! never assign values to data members in initialization

```cpp
clas abc {
	private:
	int good;
	// int bad = 1; // cuz it errors in old compiler
}
```

### If there is char string in parameter of constructor, then it won't call default constructor even if the object declaration does not have any parameters (four/constrctor.cpp)

`int a(10)` works and is same as `int a = 10`

## L6

```cpp
class Word{
public:
	explicit Word()
}
```

- 'explicit' is like preventDefault in js

### Copy constructor

```cpp
class A {
public:
	A(const A& a) {
		x = a.x;
		y = a.y;
	}
	A reflect() { return *this } // this also calls a copy constructor
}
```

#### When a copy constructor is triggered

- When u pass a object as parameter (normal copy)
- When u return an object by value in the function

#### Why use copy constructor

- Control level of copy/ what to copy

#### There is a default copy constructor too, which copies all data members one by one

##### Problem with default copy constructor

- Pointers copy the address so is kind of same, instead of copied to become independent(a.k.a shallow copying)

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int* arr; // Notice this pointr of array
public:
	A() { arr = new int[10];}
};

int main() {
	A obj1;
	A obj2(obj1);
}
```

#### Correct way to make pointer deep copied as well

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int* arr; // Notice this pointr of array
public:
	A() { arr = new int[10];}
	A(const A& a) {
		arr = new int[10];
		for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
			arr[i] = a.arr[i];
		}
	};
};
```

```cpp
Word hkust = "hkust" // implicit conversion constructor
```

## L7

#### Member initialization list

```cpp
class A {
private:
	int a, b, c;
	const int d;
	// member initialization list
	A(): a(1), b(2), c(3), d(4){ // this way directly assigns and initializes the values at the same time
	}
	// is the same as:
	A() {
		a = 1; b=2;c=3; // this way will initialize the members before assigning the values
		d = 4 // illegal
	}
}
```

## L8

#### when copy a char string to another char string, the length in new must be +1-ed:

```cpp
void receive_string(const char* s = "abc") {
  char* str = new char[strlen(s)+1]; strcpy(str, s);
}
```

##### When an object is already constructed, assigning another object to it does not trigger constructor

##### A object is killed before its data members. Reason: C++ stores the programs and variables as stack, and data members are constructed first i.e. FILO

#### If in constructor we assigned a data member a object:

```cpp
tree A;
World() {
  A = tree(1);
}
```

it gives two destructor. one for the data member itself, one for the tree(1), which is another unnamed but created object



## L9

### Generic programming

```cpp
template <typename T>
  T my_max(const T& a, const T& b) {
    return (a>b)?a:b;
  }
int main() { int c = my_max(10, 11); }
```

- ==*== If you pass parameters with different types at once though it will give error e.g. `double c = my_max(4,5.5)`

  - solution: (use a new typename for each parameter possibly with different type )

    ```cpp
    template <typename T1, typename T2>
      T my_max(const T1& a, const T2& b) {
        return (a>b)?a:b;
      }
    int main() { int c = my_max(10, 11); }
    ```

- Cannot set `typename` for return type

- It is useful for container classes e.g.

  ```cpp
  template <typename T>
    class A {
      private:
      T* arr;
      public:
      A () {arr = new T[100];}
    }
  int main() {
    A <int> something;
  }
  ```

### Operator overloading

- What you see: `c =a+b`
  Whtat c++ does: `int c = operator+(a,b)`,  or `int c = a.operator+(b)`
- handilling `<<` or `>>`: `ostream & operator<<(ostream& os, const A& x) {...} `, ` istream & operator<<(istream& os, const A& x) {...} `

## L10

##### Unlike normal functions, templates i.e. `template <typename T>`cannot be separated to header and cpp files.

## L11

#### Operator overloading

- Usually return by value unless you are returning a existing object or the operator changes the existing object

######the const of `int X::abc() const {}` means it cannot modify class members

### Stupid type checking in operator overloading scenerio

- Works :thumbsup:: `cout << b + 4.2 << endl;` given b is a custom class and have made the operator+ to handle
- Fails ​:thumbsdown:​: `cout << 8.9 + a << endl;` gives error no matter what you do...

##### Add `const` to return type in operator overloading if we do not want cascading assignments e.g. `a=b=c=d`, otherwise omit that.

## L12

#### Preventing left to right assignment in cascading assignment(six/)

```cpp
class A
{
public:
	const A& operator=(const A& a) {
		return *this;
	}
};

int main(int argc, char const *argv[])
{
	A x,y,z;
	x=y=z;
	// (x=y)=z; // errors as const in return type prevents that
	return 0;
}
```

#### Using 2 methods for same operator overloading (seven/)

```cpp
int operator[](int w) const{...} // read-only (required for const object)
int& operator[](int w) {...} // read-write
```

##### Post and Pre operators

```cpp
A& operator++(){}; //++a // cannot return new object
A operator++(int){}; //a++ //must have 'int' in parameter, can return new object
```

```cpp
int a = 5;
++a = 6; //Legit
//a++ = 6; //Illegal
```

#### Call another class/function a friend

```cpp
class A {
  private:
  	friend class B;
  	friend void x();
}
```

###### friend function is class is not a member function

- ### Generic Programming

  - Definition: programming with types as parameters

  - Careful with comparison operators for custom objects if only compare member data, since defaults compare and return the object itself

  - #### STL

    - Provides Containers to hold elements e.g. Linked List, stack, queue, tree.

      Provides Iterators(like pointers).

      Provides Algorithm e.g. sorting

    - Linked List

      - Array vs  linked list
        - LL is easier to merge and split 
        - LL is dynamic
        - LL' s access speed is low

    - ###### Containers

      - are class templates

      - 3 concepts of container

        1. kind of containeer (e.g. list-based, array-based)
        2. kind of objects (data type)
        3. kind of operations on the elements in container (mutations)

      - ###### Includes

        1. Sequence containers: linear structure, start from 0 like array
        2. Associative containers: non-sequential, key/value pairs
        3. Container adapters: uses other containers as storage, and provide different set of  member functions. E.g. Stack since it can be stored using vectors, linked lists
           - priority queue (i.e. heap)
        4. Near-containers: string, valarray

      - Deque (double ended queue):  dynamically expand/contract the storage without copying elements.

      - Containers in same category share same/similar public member functions

      - possible to remove/reduce reliance between the 3 concepts using generic programming

      - Container classes

        - holds collection of homogeneous objects
        - does not need to know the object type when designed

      - Sequence Containers: other operation

        - insert(p,x) , erase(p): p is iterator, x is the element
        - clear()
        - size(), empty(), resize(int new_size)
        - operators ==, !=, <

      - Vector

        - ```cpp
          #include <iostream>
          #include <vector>
          using namespace std;

          int main() {
            vector<int> vec;
            vec.push_back(4); // add element to back
            cout << vec.size() << endl;
            
            vector<int>*vec1 = vector<int>;
            
            //point to certain element of vector
            //not recommended but legit
            int* p = &(vec[0]);
            
            //instead of just pointer, should use iterator instead
            vector<int>::iterator it = vec.begin();
            it[0] = 200;  
            
            delete vec;
            return 0;
          }
          ```

        - Can deference a iterator

      - Class container

        - ```cpp
          template <typename T>
          class Array{
          public:
            Array(int n=3);
            T& operator+(int ) {}
          }

          // constsructor cannot just do A::A()
          template <typename T>
           A<T>::A<T>() {
           }

          // member functions
          template <typename T>
          T& Array<T>::operator+(int a ){
            //bla bla bla
          }

          //use another typename for << and >> since may stream different type 
          template <typename S>
            friend ostream& operator<<(ostream& os, const Array<S>& x);

          int main() {
            Array<int> a(3), b(3);
          }
          ```

        - Preferred to use extension "tpp" instead of "cpp"

        - Apply `template <typename T>` to all functions in class except for `<<` and `>>` as 99.9% of time you will use them as global functions

      - Sequnce container

        - iterator

          - definition: generalized pointer

          - To transverse sequence container, must use iterator

          - STL sequence containers provide `begin()`, `end()` for setting iterator

          - e.g. implementing find function

            ```cpp
            typedef int* Int_Iterator; //define a new name for type, used mainly because get rid of pointer asteroid ;)

            Int_Iterator find(Int_Iterator begin, Int_Iterator end, const T& value) {
              while (begin != end && *begin != value)
                ++begin;
              return begin;
            }
            ```

          - STL algorithm are global functions

        - Predicate

          - definition: boolean function

          - e.g. Implementing find_if function

            ```cpp
            template<class Iterator, class Predicate>
              Iterator find_if(Iterator first, Iterator, last, Predicate predicate) {
                while (first != last && !predicate(*first))
                  ++first;
              	return first;
              }
            ```

            ​

        - Function pointer: (taken from C)

          - e.g. `int (*compare) (const void* , const void* )`
          - also qsort function uses function pointer. It is a C function
            e..g `qsorst(data, num_data, sizeof(data[0]), i_compare)`, where `i_compare` is the pointer to comparison function
          - Cannot directly dereference a void pointer, so need to static cast it before dereferencing

        - Function object: (function pointer with OOP concept)

          - i.e. `A obj; obj()`
          - can be passed to other function as parameter and used as function

  - Nested class

    - ```cpp
      class A {
        public:
        class B {
          //...
        }
      }
      int main() {
        A::B b;
      }
      ```

    - ​

  - Namespace

    - Namespace can span multiple classes/functions
    - Namespace can nest each other.
    - Global namespace: e.g.  `using namespace std`,  available at global i.e. file level
    - use namespace specifically: e.g. `using std::vector;using std::cout`

  - Inheritence

    - cannot only choose specific members to inherit

    - Function that can pass base class can pass its derived class as well

    - Liskov Principle: Parent pointer can point to child object

    - If want to call parent contructor, call it in member initizliation list e.g. 

      ```cpp
      class B: public A {
        B (int p, int q): b(q), A(p) { //A(p) will be executed before b(q)
        	a = p;
        	b = q;
        }
      }
      ```

    - Have to make sure base class have copy constructor too if want to do copy construct with derived class

    - Slicing: not recommended to copy from derived class to base class, since derived class has more members, and the not covered ones in base class will be dropped.

    - the methods called are based on the pointer type, not the type of variable it is pointing to

    - When a derive class is not supposed to have a member from its base class: missed :P

    - Public members in base clas are accessible to member functions of clas, any member functions of other classes and global functions

    - Protected members in base class are accessible in methods of derived class

    - private members in base class only accessible in member functions and friends of class. Only way to access is through getter/setter or friend the class that want to use its private members

    - public, protected, private inheritance controls how the grandchild access of inherited members of the child from its parent.

      The inherited members of lower level then the level of inheritance e.g. public members, protected inheritance, will become higher security level

      - public inheritance: 'is-a' relationship
      - private inheritance: 'has-a' relationship

    - | Public                    | Protected                 | Private                 |
      | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ----------------------- |
      | public $\to$ public       | public $\to$ protected    | public $\to$ private    |
      | protected $\to$ protected | protected $\to$ protected | protected $\to$ private |
      | private $\to$ private     | private $\to$ private     | private $\to$ private   |

    - Virtual function

      - Normally parent method is executed if use `Parent *aPtr = new Child`,
      - If use virtual then child's method is executed instead, the child's method will also become virtual though. It only propagates downward
