---
title: Comp2611
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ comp2611 ]
date: 2016-11-24
filename: 2016-11-24-Comp2611
---

# Comp2611

https://course.cse.ust.hk/comp2611/note/Comp2611_pipeline_Fall2016_part1.pdf

sequential: time: No. of jobs $\times$ No. of tasks for each job

==Pipelining==: parallelism among multiple instructions

​	time: No. of jobs + No. of tasks for each job - 1.  

​	its performance vs sequential: about $(steps per job). aka. ==depth of pipeline==

Multiprocessing: parallelism among multiple processors



Pipelining still isnt sharing the same hardware at same time, just each pipeline uses the hardware once its idle. 

​	Helps throughput but does not help the latency, in fact might increase.

Startup time: Time needed to idle til first pipeline finished

Pipeline rate is bottlenecked by the slowest pipeline stage, since cannot overlap them, so need to align for the longer stages with 'bubbles'. Not optimal.

To solve uneven times for each stage. Use the longest time as unit time.

How MIPS ISA is designed for pipelining: (P.12)

1. All instructions are of same length
2. Just a few similar instruction formats
3. Memory operands only appear in loads and stores
4. Align memory operands on words boundaries

Five stages: IF,ID,EX,MEM,WB

​	need registers between them to hold information from last cycle: IF/ID, ID/EX, EX/MEM. MEM/WB. They do read & write in one cycle cuz fast enough

single-clock-cycle pipeline diagram: ==snapshot== of the all components

multi-clock-cycle pipeline diagram: ==video== of an operation.

One problem is before writing to the inter-stage register the write register in ID is already changed by next pipelines instruction in IF. Solution is forward the Write Register info from MEM/WB registers. aka. 'Piggy-back' strat

------



==Pipelined Control==: Same as single-cycle datapath except they are pipelined so each stage get the correct control

Pipelined control needed for each stage:

1. IF: none.
2. ID: none
3. EX: RegDst, ALUOp, ALUSrc
4. MEM: Branch (should I branch), MemRead (shoud i read) , MemWrite (should I write)
5. WB: MemToReg, RegWrite



Control signal 'luggage' is collected as a whole in ID/EX, gets dropped and passed on 

------

==Harzards==: caused by Dependencies in programs

e.g. `add` need to Wait for previous instruction `lw` to return the register value from memory before actually using it (==Data==)

e.g. Not sure if load `add` to IF or until previous instruction `bne` have decided whether to branch (==Control==)

Three types of hazards: 

1. ==Structural==: different instructions compete for same hardware
2. ==Data==: next instructiton depend on previous instruction's data
3. ==Control==: which next instruction to execute depends on previous instruction

Waiting solves all hazards, but not optimal

Solve Structural hazard:

1.  for Memory :add memory ports to allow parallel accesses to independent addresses. Separate Instruction memory from data memory
2.  for Register: mentioned before. Write in 1st half cycle, Read at 2nd half cycle. Complete in 1 cycle

Solve Data hazard: Forward data from after EX to before EX for next instruction. Partially solve and Does not solve if data needed by different stage of next instruction  from the current stage of  instruction.  Leads to 'Load-&-use hazard'

Solve load & use harzard: use compiler to understand the dependencies



