---
title: Isom 2030
desc: L
category: Study
tags: [ ]
date: 2017-02-15
filename: 2017-02-15-Isom 2030
---

# Isom 2030

**Distribution right**: You can share copyrighted product e.g. DVD physically for other's home use, but the transmission channel must not be in public e.g. cannot be sent over public transmission wire

Business protection of innovation is more than just asset protection with law; shouldnt be over protected otherwise the product itself cannot be reached and makes it not worth protecting

Sony Betamax vs VHS group: Betamax was rly nice, but since it is too protected and Sony was not strong enough, VHS that licensed to public wins. $\rightarrow$ control the standard by allowing the product itself be shared everywhere with license, rather than just making the best product.

Some argue the patent period (lifetime + 70years) and product monopoly (20 years) too long and protected, discouraging innovation

Non-IP law protection methods(not government-protection, but maybe even stronger/controlled):

- Size (your company size & power)
- Access to customers or channels (brand, distribution network): e.g. customer more willing to try your new product idea2
- Access to knowledge and skills: Know wt others dunno (sometimes hard to keep secret, e.g. leaked).
- Access to resources, proterty...: e.g. oil field, key decision makers

Innovation rights protection:

- 'Leases': avoids first-sale doctrine issues. e.g. Apple 'leases' macbook hardware, not the OS
  - court does not like that, and may reform it into 'sale' since it looks like sale
  - Some company therefore requests annual fee, renewals, limited terms helpful instead of 'Lease'
  - 'License' from Microsoft also not likely to be win if challenged in court

Innovation rights copying:

- some older copyrights were only 40 years and can be renewed for another 40 years


- some wait for copyright or patent to expire $\to$ immediately bring new product based on 'expired' IP rights

e.g. 'It's a wonder life''s owner forgot to renew and becuz of it got shown on TV and succeeded, so the director was actually happy with the turnout, benefitted him more than if he had renewed it.

Risk of over-protection

- Upsets customer and harms reputation, so might find alternatives. $\rightarrow$ instead not be the only one sueing violations.
- But still cant be too soft with it, since artists might then not get benefits

e.g. Sony had hidden 'toolkit' that prevents ripping of CD, in form of kinda like spyware, so although won in court, lost in market and users

Recording labels have big risks since they often need to make promotions work for them and need big hits to offset the losses

Strategy to have balance protection in music

1. Sue few high profile cases(rich, frequent violations), esp. ppl who pisses judge off :wink:, and then set up the nice legal framework for later cases
2. Expand the litigation and rights, since court will be more comfortable with adding them after the successful sue
3. Dramatiacally expand litigation
   - Risky if the uploading is considered as fair use in court, or other backlash, therefore shifted sueing individuals to universivities

Success is risky since if small size you can be low profile and doesnt care that much about impression. Whereas big size means you need to care about impression and have deep pockets, easy to be targeted.



> A famous video that is put at beginning of cds is false with the statement 'download dvd is a crime' since 'crime' is stuff that is against government. upload is though. and the background for it was actually used without permission LOL, and they tried to cover it up by paying , whcih is crime also LOLL